BUILD.md, before:

# How to Build Klogg

## Overview

These instructions will get you a copy of the project up and running on your local machine for development and testing purposes.
Local builds can be faster because code can be optimized for current CPU instead of generic x86-64. Support for SSE4/AVX code paths
will be enabled if available on build machine.

## Getting the Source

This project is [hosted on GitHub](https://github.com/variar/klogg). You can clone this project directly using this command:
```
git clone https://github.com/variar/klogg
```

## Dependencies

To build Klogg:
 * cmake 3.12 or later to generate build files
 * C++ compiler with decent C++17 support (at least gcc 7.5, clang 7, msvc 19.14)
 * Qt libraries 5.9 or later (CI builds use Qt 5.9.5/5.12.5/5.15.2):
    - QtCore
    - QtGui
    - QtWidgets
    - QtConcurrent
    - QtNetwork
    - QtXml


To build Hyperscan regular expressions backend (default):
 * CPU with support for [SSSE3](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SSSE3) instructions (for Hyperscan backend)
 * Boost (1.58 or later, header-only part)
 * Ragel (6.8 or later; precompiled binary is provided for Windows; has to be installed from package managers on Linux or Homebrew on Mac)

To build installer for Windows:
 * nsis to build installer for Windows
 * Precompiled OpenSSl library to enable https support on Windows

Building tests:
 * QtTest


All other dependencies are provided by [CPM](https://github.com/cpm-cmake/CPM.cmake) during cmake configuration stage (see 3rdparty directory).

CPM will try to find Hyperscan, TBB, uchardet and xxhash installed on build host.
If a library can't be found, the one provided by CPM will be used.

## Building

### Configuration options

By default Klogg is built without support for reporting crash dumps. This can be enabled via cmake option `-DKLOGG_USE_SENTRY=ON`.

Klogg uses Hyperscan regular expressions library which requires CPU with SSSE3 support, ragel and boost headers.
Klogg can be built with only Qt reqular expressions backend by passing `-DKLOGG_USE_HYPERSCAN=OFF` to cmake.

Klogg can use custom memory allocator. By default it uses TBB memory allocator for Windows, mimalloc on Linux and default system allocator on MacOS.
Memory allocator override can be turned off by passing `-DKLOGG_OVERRIDE_MALLOC`. If you want to use TBB allocator on Linux then pass
`-DKLOGG_USE_MIMALLOC=OFF`.

### Building on Linux

You can use the provided script for an automated build by running:

```Bash
./scripts/build.sh
```

Alternatively, you can follow the manual build instructions provided below. Please make sure you have all the necessary dependencies installed on your system.

Install dependencies:
```
sudo apt-get install build-essential cmake qtbase5-dev libboost-all-dev ragel
```

Configure and build klogg:

```
cd <path_to_klogg_repository_clone>
tar xvf cpm_cache.tar.gz
mkdir build_root
cd build_root
cmake -DCPM_SOURCE_CACHE=../cpm_cache ..
cmake --build .
```

Binaries are placed into `build_root/output`.

See `.github/workflows/ci-build.yml` for more information on build process.

### Building on Windows

Install Microsoft Visual Studio 2017 or 2019 with C++ support.
Community edition can be downloaded from [Microsoft](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/vs/).

Intall latest Qt version using [online installer](https://www.qt.io/download-qt-installer).
Make sure to select version matching Visual Studio installation. 64-bit libraries are recommended.

Install CMake from [Kitware](https://cmake.org/download/).
Use version 3.14 or later for Visual Studio 2019 support.

Download the Boost source code from http://www.boost.org/users/download/.
Extract to some folder. Directory structure should be something like `C:\Boost\boost_1_63_0`.
Then add `BOOST_ROOT` environment variable pointing to main directory of Boost sources so CMake is able to fine it.

Prepare build environment for CMake. Open command prompt window and depending on version of Visual Studio run either
```
call "%ProgramFiles(x86)%\Microsoft Visual Studio\2019\Community\Common7\Tools\vsdevcmd" -arch=x64
```
or
```
call "%ProgramFiles(x86)%\Microsoft Visual Studio\2017\Community\Common7\Tools\vsdevcmd" -arch=x64
```

Next setup Qt paths:
```
<path_to_qt_installation>\bin\qtenv2.bat
```

Then add CMake to PATH:
```
set PATH=<path_to_cmake_bin>:$PATH
```

Configure klogg solution (use CMake generator matching Visual Studio version):
```
cd <path_to_project_root>
md build_root
cd build_root
cmake -G "Visual Studio 16 2019 Win64" -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=RelWithDebInfo ..
```

CMake should generate `klogg.sln` file in `<path_to_project_root>\build_root` directory. Open solution and build it.

Binaries are placed into `build_root/output`.

For https network urls support download precompiled openssl library https://mirror.firedaemon.com/OpenSSL/openssl-1.1.1l-dev.zip.
Put libcrypto-1_1 and libssl-1_1 for desired architecture near klogg binaries.

### Building on Mac OS

Klogg requires macOS High Sierra (10.13) or higher.

Install [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/) using terminal:
```
/usr/bin/ruby -e "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/master/install)"
```

Homebrew installer should also install xcode command line tools.

Download and install build dependencies:
```
brew install cmake ninja qt boost ragel
```

Usually path to qt installation looks like `/usr/local/Cellar/qt/5.14.0/lib/cmake/Qt5`

Configure and build klogg:
```
cd <path_to_klogg_repository_clone>
mkdir build_root
cd build_root
cmake -G Ninja -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=RelWithDebInfo -DQt5_DIR=<path_to_qt_install> ..
cmake --build .
```

Binaries are placed into `build_root/output`.

By default, klogg will rely on cmake to figure out target MacOS version. Usually it uses build host version.
To override default cmake value pass an option `-DKLOGG_OSX_DEPLOYMENT_TARGET=<target>` to cmake during configuration step,
`<target>` is one of `10.14`, `10.15`, `11`, `12`. Klogg's traget must be greater or equal to target used by Qt libraries.

## Running tests
Tests are built by default. To turn them off pass `-DBUILD_TESTS:BOOL=OFF` to cmake.
Tests use catch2 (bundled with klogg sources) and require Qt5Test module. Tests can be run using ctest tool provider by CMake:
```
cd <path_to_klogg_repository_clone>
cd build_root
ctest --build-config RelWithDebInfo --verbose
```

Commit message:

fixed build error on ubuntu 18.04

BUILD.md, after:

# How to Build Klogg

## Overview

These instructions will get you a copy of the project up and running on your local machine for development and testing purposes.
Local builds can be faster because code can be optimized for current CPU instead of generic x86-64. Support for SSE4/AVX code paths
will be enabled if available on build machine.

## Getting the Source

This project is [hosted on GitHub](https://github.com/variar/klogg). You can clone this project directly using this command:
```
git clone https://github.com/variar/klogg
```

## Dependencies

To build Klogg:
 * cmake 3.12 or later to generate build files
 * C++ compiler with decent C++17 support (at least gcc 7.5, clang 7, msvc 19.14)
 * Qt libraries 5.9 or later (CI builds use Qt 5.9.5/5.12.5/5.15.2):
    - QtCore
    - QtGui
    - QtWidgets
    - QtConcurrent
    - QtNetwork
    - QtXml


To build Hyperscan regular expressions backend (default):
 * CPU with support for [SSSE3](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SSSE3) instructions (for Hyperscan backend)
 * Boost (1.58 or later, header-only part)
 * Ragel (6.8 or later; precompiled binary is provided for Windows; has to be installed from package managers on Linux or Homebrew on Mac)

To build installer for Windows:
 * nsis to build installer for Windows
 * Precompiled OpenSSl library to enable https support on Windows

Building tests:
 * QtTest


All other dependencies are provided by [CPM](https://github.com/cpm-cmake/CPM.cmake) during cmake configuration stage (see 3rdparty directory).

CPM will try to find Hyperscan, TBB, uchardet and xxhash installed on build host.
If a library can't be found, the one provided by CPM will be used.

## Building

### Configuration options

By default Klogg is built without support for reporting crash dumps. This can be enabled via cmake option `-DKLOGG_USE_SENTRY=ON`.

Klogg uses Hyperscan regular expressions library which requires CPU with SSSE3 support, ragel and boost headers.
Klogg can be built with only Qt reqular expressions backend by passing `-DKLOGG_USE_HYPERSCAN=OFF` to cmake.

Klogg can use custom memory allocator. By default it uses TBB memory allocator for Windows, mimalloc on Linux and default system allocator on MacOS.
Memory allocator override can be turned off by passing `-DKLOGG_OVERRIDE_MALLOC`. If you want to use TBB allocator on Linux then pass
`-DKLOGG_USE_MIMALLOC=OFF`.

### Building on Linux

You can use the provided script for an automated build by running:

```Bash
./scripts/build.sh
```

Alternatively, you can follow the manual build instructions provided below. Please make sure you have all the necessary dependencies installed on your system.

Install dependencies:
```
sudo apt-get install build-essential cmake qtbase5-dev libboost-all-dev ragel
```

Configure and build klogg:

```
cd <path_to_klogg_repository_clone>
tar xvf cpm_cache.tar.gz
mkdir build_root
cd build_root
cmake -DCPM_SOURCE_CACHE=../cpm_cache ..
cmake --build .
```

**if build system is ubuntu 18.04, you should configure as:**
```
cmake -DCPM_SOURCE_CACHE=../cpm_cache -DKLOGG_GENERIC_CPU=ON -DKLOGG_USE_LTO=OFF ..
```

Binaries are placed into `build_root/output`.

See `.github/workflows/ci-build.yml` for more information on build process.

### Building on Windows

Install Microsoft Visual Studio 2017 or 2019 with C++ support.
Community edition can be downloaded from [Microsoft](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/vs/).

Intall latest Qt version using [online installer](https://www.qt.io/download-qt-installer).
Make sure to select version matching Visual Studio installation. 64-bit libraries are recommended.

Install CMake from [Kitware](https://cmake.org/download/).
Use version 3.14 or later for Visual Studio 2019 support.

Download the Boost source code from http://www.boost.org/users/download/.
Extract to some folder. Directory structure should be something like `C:\Boost\boost_1_63_0`.
Then add `BOOST_ROOT` environment variable pointing to main directory of Boost sources so CMake is able to fine it.

Prepare build environment for CMake. Open command prompt window and depending on version of Visual Studio run either
```
call "%ProgramFiles(x86)%\Microsoft Visual Studio\2019\Community\Common7\Tools\vsdevcmd" -arch=x64
```
or
```
call "%ProgramFiles(x86)%\Microsoft Visual Studio\2017\Community\Common7\Tools\vsdevcmd" -arch=x64
```

Next setup Qt paths:
```
<path_to_qt_installation>\bin\qtenv2.bat
```

Then add CMake to PATH:
```
set PATH=<path_to_cmake_bin>:$PATH
```

Configure klogg solution (use CMake generator matching Visual Studio version):
```
cd <path_to_project_root>
md build_root
cd build_root
cmake -G "Visual Studio 16 2019 Win64" -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=RelWithDebInfo ..
```

CMake should generate `klogg.sln` file in `<path_to_project_root>\build_root` directory. Open solution and build it.

Binaries are placed into `build_root/output`.

For https network urls support download precompiled openssl library https://mirror.firedaemon.com/OpenSSL/openssl-1.1.1l-dev.zip.
Put libcrypto-1_1 and libssl-1_1 for desired architecture near klogg binaries.

### Building on Mac OS

Klogg requires macOS High Sierra (10.13) or higher.

Install [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/) using terminal:
```
/usr/bin/ruby -e "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/master/install)"
```

Homebrew installer should also install xcode command line tools.

Download and install build dependencies:
```
brew install cmake ninja qt boost ragel
```

Usually path to qt installation looks like `/usr/local/Cellar/qt/5.14.0/lib/cmake/Qt5`

Configure and build klogg:
```
cd <path_to_klogg_repository_clone>
mkdir build_root
cd build_root
cmake -G Ninja -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=RelWithDebInfo -DQt5_DIR=<path_to_qt_install> ..
cmake --build .
```

Binaries are placed into `build_root/output`.

By default, klogg will rely on cmake to figure out target MacOS version. Usually it uses build host version.
To override default cmake value pass an option `-DKLOGG_OSX_DEPLOYMENT_TARGET=<target>` to cmake during configuration step,
`<target>` is one of `10.14`, `10.15`, `11`, `12`. Klogg's traget must be greater or equal to target used by Qt libraries.

## Running tests
Tests are built by default. To turn them off pass `-DBUILD_TESTS:BOOL=OFF` to cmake.
Tests use catch2 (bundled with klogg sources) and require Qt5Test module. Tests can be run using ctest tool provider by CMake:
```
cd <path_to_klogg_repository_clone>
cd build_root
ctest --build-config RelWithDebInfo --verbose
```
